The next thing I really wanna talk
about is self-hosted versus cloud
providers, okay?
And if you're curious which one is which,
Guilfoyle, self-hosted, Dinesh,
cloud providers.
This is a really common question.
It happens a lot I don't know why but
it almost seems like people
think it's easier to go to
self-hosted than it is to cloud.
And I think that's like
a common misconception.
I think it might be because like,
I know how a network switch works right or
I know how to, plug in a computer and
these lower level pieces, I think,
is what makes us confident
in self-hosting.
However, where that confidence is lost
is around the management of it, right?
Making sure that it's up all the time,
making sure that it's
patched all the time.
And this is where a lot of that
is completely forgotten and lost.
So this is a super common question,
but in my opinion,
I don't necessarily think it's the right
question but let's go a bit further.
So should I self host my infrastructure?
No, I don't think you should.
However, and again, this is a big however,
it's up to the organization, okay?
That might be my personal opinion but
I will say.
If you're in a scenario where
self-hosting is maybe required,
maybe the infrastructure's already been
there and there's not much flexibility.
I have people in our community who
are talking in our discord daily
about the challenges they
have with self-hosted.
And a lot of the times,
it's the same problem, an outage, this or
that and these are the reasons why
I say no, if you're a company.
Now if you're just a person,
it doesn't really matter,
you're hobbyist at that point you just
having fun, but if you're a company
who doesn't wanna have to worry about
your servers being online all the time,
doesn't have to worry
about the electrical bill.
[LAUGH] Even into that, what I mean?
These are just reasons why you would you
would use a cloud provider instead of
a self host, right?
[LAUGH] It's so much cheaper.
Also, no, it's not.
This is also a common misconception.
And I'm gonna give a good example of this.
So I built a data center before,
and when we did it,
we spent around $50,000 in hardware for
a specific part of our section, right?
So we spent $50,000 on the tech, right?
And then we spent probably another
month in implementation and
development, getting it all set up and
running.
And not only that, then we also had to
hire somebody who was on colocation, so
that when I wasn't at the data center,
someone else could handle that for me.
Those are called like runners essentially.
They cost a lot of money.
Datacenters don't wanna
touch your servers.
And so a lot of the times your money
even though you're running it in a DC is
around maintenance and making sure
that somebody's going to the data
center often and checking these things and
stuff like that.
If you don't have these in place,
it's hard to be away from that
physical component and
know that it's working all the time.
And so this is where I don't even
think it's cheaper because you
have ongoing maintenance
that you just keep doing.
And that really just comes down to time
and money spent on those problems.
And again, as I mentioned before,
you'll spend money on engineers, right?
You'll spend more money on maintenance and
you'll spend more money on security and
security is one we didn't even talk about,
right?
I don't think any of you guys
have armored entrances or
complete battery backup failsafes or
on premise security guards
who monitor access to your,
these are things that if you self-host it,
if you go into a co-location,
you're gonna pay for it.
And if you do it completely on-premises
yourself, you have to do it yourself.
These are things that you just get out
of the box with Amazon by simply saying,
I'm gonna spend a little
bit more on my VPC.
And so again, when should I self-host?
So here's a good example
of when you should.
Dropbox, Dropbox from ending and
this is from what I knew a while ago.
I don't know if it's still accurate,
but I know at one point,
they separated their data
from the cloud to be on Prem.
And a big reason for
that was just because it was easier for
them to manage the actual data locally for
security and things like that, right?
But then all their API's and
stuff still existed in the cloud, right?
So they just use their on prem stuff for
the data storage part of
their their infrastructure.
Why did they do that?
Well, potentially for security reasons,
maybe they had to bring
the data closer to home so
that they wouldn't have to deal with like
shoot, what's the European security?
>> GDPR.
>> Yeah, GDPR and stuff like that right?
Once you really start talking about these
things it becomes really challenging
sometimes to do it on a cloud provider
level, especially when you're so
big, right?
But they didn't say, well,
let's just move everything right.
They just took that one component and
they said, okay, well,
this makes more sense for
us to host it ourselves, right?
And so this is, I think,
a good scenario of where sure self-hosting
might be viable for you, right?
Because it's about
saving yourself time and
saving yourself really in the end
more opportunity to do other things.
And so if this gives you that,
then it's probably worth it.
But gotta really be confident in the whole
management process of that, right?
So self-hosting should
really be isolated for
separate managed infrastructure or
things like that.
And as I said before I have self hosted I
literally used to go to a Colocation data
center once a month I've been inside of
it, inside of DCs a lot and I've also
done Private clouds as well I've worked
on OpenStack and I've worked on VMware.
And in both times it was not cheaper or
easier and
more time was spent on maintenance.
When it was at the CoLo, I was driving to
the data center a lot or we were spending
thousands of dollars on having somebody
get up out of their chair, walk five
feet and plug something in, because
that's what they charge if you do that.
Whereas the Private cloud scenario, you're
entirely in charge of that cloud, right?
So you're in charge of all the services,
you're in charge of all the data stuff, or
all the databases and things like that.
And so what happens if your database
breaks on your open source cloud provider?
[LAUGH] Nothing works.
And so this is what I mean by it's
just not easier because you take
on the responsibility of what
you're essentially managing.
So, which cloud providers should I use?
If we decide not to use self-hosted,
which cloud providers should I use?
I put Amazon on here.
We're gonna be using Amazon.
I also put Google Cloud Platform and
Azure Cloud.
These I think are probably the most
talked about clouds out there right now.
IBM is a more, I would say, focused on
specific problems, and they have a really
good solution but I think for general
purpose clouds, Amazon Web Services,
GCP, and Azure Cloud are probably
the ones that people talk about the most.
And what about other ones that you've seen
before, like DigitalOcean, Linode, Heroku,
like where do those fit in?
So when I worked at MediaTemple,
we got coined the phrase
a boutique hosting provider.
And if you've ever gotten to like
shoes and stuff, there's boutiques for
shoes, it's kinda the same concept is
these are providers that are very niche or
very small.
And they actually normally 9 times out
of 10 already built on top of existing
providers.
So for example, Linodes,
object storage, that's just Amazon.
[LAUGH] It's just rebranded Amazon.
Same thing with a lot of DOs,
like droplets and stuff.
That's not their infrastructure,
that's running on something else or
at least it was, it might not be now.
But a lot of these are essentially
what we call resellers.
They're taking the products
that already exist and
they're reselling on top of them for
a more premium value.
They could be valuable to you,
but it's gonna be more expensive.
A bucket through linode is just,
they want more of a cut.
So they're gonna take
a bit more out of it.
They're not really considered
enterprise cloud providers at
least from my perspective because they
already build on top of enterprise
cloud providers that exist.
So again, how can they help?
A good example of this is if
you have specific requirements,
say you've got a frontend
team that wants to deploy or
something like, edge,
workers or something like that.
Cloud workers might be a good solution for
you.
That's more of like a boutique-specific
niche thing, right?
If you're into Next.js and all that stuff,
those are popular solutions
that solve specific problems.
And the last one,
I think that really helps everyone is
they can help with speed to market.
If you're in a situation where you
genuinely just don't care about any of
your infrastructure, you're just
a developer who wants to host things,
Heroku and
these other services are really powerful.
They can get you there really quickly.
So, if you don't wanna build
infrastructure, essentially,
these providers can really
help you with that.
This is the question I get a lot, right?
Which cloud providers should I use?
I don't like, the TLDR on all of
this is I don't have a standardized,
strict way of giving that to you.
I don't.
The reality of it is it's about your
confidence in trying something new and
experimenting with it, really.
And so, for me,
whenever I pick a cloud provider again,
I evaluate my requirements.
I look and I see,
what do I just need to get this running?
Do I just need an EC2 instance or
just an instance?
Do I need a container?
Things like that.
And I think it's also good to include
possible future requirements with
that as well.
There's a solid chance you might
be on that provider for a while.
So might ask yourself questions like,
would we ever get into serverless?
Would we ever want to use a CDN
solution provided by them or
other things like that?
But don't let that decision
be the guiding force.
It's just something that will help you
with getting through the the question.
Determine which provider fits your needs
in the sense of actually look at what
you need and say, okay, yep,
it does it, this, actually solves that.
And then determine which one
fits your budget with it.
So once you know it can do what you want,
price it.
Do not go to the cloud
without pricing anything.
If you do that,
your credit card will cry, [LAUGH] okay?
So you do not want to, even if
you're going to create an instance,
go to Amazon's calculator,
all these big providers have calculators,
you can look in at least see a vague idea
of how much you're gonna be spending and
that's how I do it.
I'll build a small piece
of infrastructure.
I'll go to the calculator and then
I'll say, yep, that's not a good idea.
[LAUGH] I'll go back and
I'll rebuild it until it's cost effective.
This is another one as well,
which I think is very important.
Test with a constant proof of concept.
What does that mean?
Basic hypothesis, what is it?
The hypotherm?
I can't even speak, but the hypothesis
theory, that's what I'm trying to say,
you have a constant, and you do the same
thing on all of them to actually be able
to see what the differences are, right?
So going all the way back to the terraform
versus Pulumi examples that I showed
you, right?
You can do the same thing,
but with cloud providers.
Build one network on Amazon,
build another one on GCP and
realize why you don't like GCP.
No, I'm just kidding.
[LAUGH] but
realize why it might not be something
that you're interested in or not.
And don't build one thing on one cloud and
then one on another and
expect it to give you a reasonable
answer cuz they work differently.
And then document your findings and
compare.
I genuinely think if you go through
this list for each cloud provider and
by the time you get to the last one
you'll very confident in at least what
you know and what you will wanna chose and
it might take a couple of times.
You might try Amazon first then you might
try GCP and then you might try Azure and
then you might look at all three of them
and then go like, Stick with your gut.
What felt the easiest to use?
If it was that, then that might
be the best one for you to use.
It's not a simple decision, as I said, and
it should be taken seriously
with proper research.
You're buying your next home for
your company.
You have to be very considerate
of if that home is gonna help
you scale the way that you want.